in today's video we are going to go
through 2000's american superhero
thriller
unbreakable where a man learns something
extraordinary about himself after a
devastating accident
spoilers ahead you have been warned
before we get into the video please give
it a like and subscribe to the channel
the year is 1961 and the movie opens at
a philadelphia department store where a
woman gives birth to a boy and names him
elijah
there happens to be a doctor around the
store he takes the baby in his arms but
his smile fades as he asks if they
dropped him
the mother and the people surrounding
her answer no only to be told that the
baby's limbs are broken
present day david dunn is traveling from
new york to philadelphia in a train
the engine of the train keeps getting
louder and the train speeds far more
than the limit
the passengers panic david wakes up in
an emergency room
the doctor by his side asks him basic
medical questions
and then inquires the position of his
trained seat he says his seat was by the
window in the passenger car to which the
doctor
looks at him funny the train had
derailed
causing the accident and david was the
only survivor with no broken bones
he has no wounds on him not even a
scratch
as he comes out of the emergency room
his son and wife hug him
while people around stare at him an
anomaly a miracle
at home his wife audrey asks about his
interview in new york
he says he didn't get the job but still
plans on moving there they are going
through marital problems which is why
they sleep in separate rooms
when david is leaving the memorial
service for the victims of the east rail
train accident
he finds an envelope on the windshield
of his car the paper inside is embossed
with the words
limited edition there's only one
sentence written inside the fold
how many days of your life have you been
sick
he goes back to his job as a security
guard at a university football stadium
he asks his supervisor to check the
number of sick days he had taken
his supervisor having heard of the
accident gives him a forty dollar raise
and confirms that he's not taken
a single sick day back home he asks his
wife when was the last time he was sick
she says she doesn't remember in the
past in west philadelphia young elijah
sits before a tv with a fractured arm
his mom urges him to get out but he
fears he'll get hurt more
he's called mr glass at school because
he breaks like glass
she tells him that there's nothing he
can do about his condition and that he
cannot spend his entire life afraid and
hiding
his mother gets him a present but sets a
condition if he wants it he has to get
it from the bench across the street
with her encouragement he crosses the
street and sits on the bench to open the
present wrapped in a purple paper
it's a comic book his mother tells him
that every time he wants to come out to
the bench
she'll keep one on it david and his son
reach the limited edition art gallery
they meet the owner elijah price who had
sent the letter to david
while chatting with price david says
he's most probably never been sick or
injured in his life
but his son joseph tells price about a
car accident in college
the reason he can't play football
anymore elijah price has studied comic
books his entire life
the inspiration of the superhero
narrative comes from true experiences
that get covered up with cartoons
and the commerciality of the industry he
had observed man-made disasters and
accidents but never had he heard the
word
sole survivor until the east rail train
accident
he tells david about his condition
osteogenesis imperfecta
where the bones have low density which
make them brutal he always thought there
was someone on the other end of the
spectrum
someone with above average strength
someone who will protect others
david believes that price just wants to
take financial advantage the envelope
gave him hope
he reached out for a solution and is
reasonably put off by price's theory
at night he digs up newspaper cutouts of
his football career
and the subsequent car accident audrey
and david talk about their broken
relationship
she says that she wants to work on that
marriage again adding that she's so
thankful that he survived the car crash
price visits him at the stadium
supported by a glass cane
he finds it interesting that david chose
to be a security guard a profession of
protection
as they stroll around the stadium david
has a hunch that a man in a camouflage
jacket is carrying a gun
when he starts searching the people
going in the man separates from the lion
and leaves
price asks david if he has powerful
instincts he explains that superpowers
and comics are just an exaggeration of
instinct
david argues that he could be wrong
about the gun price leaves the stadium
and follows the man to prove his theory
as he gains on him he falls down a
staircase and yells in pain his glass
cane shattering beside him
at the very moment he sees a flash of a
silver gun on the man
david was right after work joseph tags
along with his father to help him work
out
he puts 250 pounds on the weights that's
the most david has lifted while bench
pressing
joseph says he'll take off the weights
but adds 20 more
david reprimands him for it but they
keep adding as much as he can lift
by the end david lifts 350 pounds
elijah is in a wheelchair due to his
fall he visits david's wife a physical
therapist as a patient
audrey indulges him when asked about how
she met her husband they keep chatting
and elijah ends up telling her how he
discovered david and his condition
he tries to make her see what he sees in
david meanwhile david gets a call from
joseph's school saying he's hurt
he sits with the old principal as she
recollects david's drowning incident
from his childhood
one he doesn't remember until now joseph
explains how he hurt himself as a result
of thinking he was like his father
when audrey is telling david about
elijah's visit joseph finds his dad's
gun
and bullets he tries to shoot david to
prove elijah's theory that he cannot get
hurt
audrey tries to talk him down david
tells him about the drowning incident
when joseph doesn't comply david
threatens to leave the house if he
shoots him
that gets him to lower the gun and the
family breathes a sigh of relief
david meets elijah who accuses him of
faking his car accident injury to avoid
success in football for marriage
david shares the pool incident of his
childhood with him disproving his theory
then they decide to end their
communication forever
david and audrey go out on a date when
they come back there's a voicemail from
elijah
in it he says they may be on the
opposite end of the spectrum but their
common weakness is water
a flashback plays of him saving audrey
from the car crash a man asks if they're
hurt
audrey's injured on the legs but david
doesn't answer in the present he calls
price and confesses that he's never been
injured
he tries to develop his instincts by
going into a crowd
when he comes in contact with someone he
can see their worst deed
he lets people rush past him and see
some of the terrible things
people have done hit and run theft and
molestation
he's overwhelmed by seeing the worst of
people a maintenance man walks by and
david sees a vision of him breaking into
a house and
killing a man he follows the murderer on
a rainy night to that very house
he sees flashes of the crime as he walks
in he steps into a bedroom where he
finds the victim's daughters handcuffed
inside the closet david helps them
escape
before he can untie the wife in the next
room the murderer finds him and pushes
him from the balcony
in a pool almost drowning david luckily
the daughters save him
he goes back to fight and ends up
killing the murderer then he unties the
wife
he comes home and seeks comfort in the
arms of his wife after the traumatic
experience
next morning joseph enters the kitchen
and david shows him the newspaper
in which the last night's event is
reported joseph tears up
david visits price's exhibition and
meets his mom she quotes her son
there are villains of two kinds ones who
fight with hands
and ones who fight with the mind he
follows elijah deeper into the
establishment
elijah has the day's newspaper in his
hands david confesses he didn't feel
sadness today
when they shake hands he sees the worst
of price he discovers that the accidents
in the city were caused by price only to
find someone like david
he sees drafts and plans as evidence of
his guilt in the back room
in the end david leads the authorities
to price who's then kept in an
institution for the criminally insane
thank you so much for watching make sure
to like the video if you enjoyed it and
subscribe to our channel to see more of
these movie summaries